Lingua Franca

Lingua Franca, a translation service, has asked me to help them configure their environment.


1.

Print the working directory.

pwd

2.

Create and open the bash profile.

nano ~/.bash_profile

3.

In the bash profile, add a greeting of your choice.

Save the bash profile, exit nano, and clear the terminal window.

echo "Hello, Hola, Ni Hao, Bonjour, and Kon'nichiwa! Welcome to our translation services"

Ctrl + O
Enter
Ctrl + X

4.

Source the bash profile to make the greeting available in the current session. You should see the greeting you creating in the above step.

source ~/.bash_profile

5.

Open the bash profile, and create three aliases, one for the mkdir command, one for date, and one for history.

Save the bash profile, exit nano, and clear the terminal window.

alias md="mkdir"
alias d="date"
alias hy="history"

6.

Source the bash profile to make the aliases available in the current session.

source ~/.bash_profile

7.

Test out the aliases you created for the mkdir, date, and history commands. (Recall that when you test out the alias for mkdir you will need to pass in a directory name as an argument such as translations.)

md translations
d
hy

8.

Type the less command, with the filename javanese.txt. After you do this, type q to quit.

The less command is similar to cat, but is better adapted to handling larger files. It displays files in the terminal one page at a time.

less javanese.txt

q

9.

The less command is a special command that we can configure in the bash profile through the LESS environment variable.

Open the bash profile, and create and export a new environment variable called LESS, setting it equal to the option "-N". The -N option adds line numbers to the file.

Save the bash profile, exit nano, and clear the terminal window.

export LESS="-N"

10.

Source the bash profile to make the LESS line number option available for the current session.

source ~/.bash_profile

11.

Type the less command again now, with the filename javanese.txt. The file should appear, along with line numbers. Press q to quit.

less javanese.txt

q

12.

Open the bash profile. Create and export the PS1 environment variable, setting it equal to a prompt of your choice. Be sure to leave a space before the close of the quotations.

Save the bash profile, exit nano, and clear the terminal window.

export PS1="c[○┬●]כ "

13.

Source the bash profile to make the new prompt available in the current session.
14.

Test out the prompt by typing the names of the aliases you created.

md script
d
hy

15.

Return a list of environment variables.

env

16.

Last but not least, return the value for the environment variable for LESS.

env | grep LESS
